{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf250
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\vieww17240\viewh16160\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 NOTES\
\
-- Data created by Tom Patterson, January 27, 2010. \
\
-- Although Tom Patterson is a National Park Service employee, this data was produced privately and is not an official product nor is it endorsed by the Park Service.\
\
-- Data includes the 392 \ul authorized\ulnone  National Park Service units. The data does not include affiliated areas and unauthorized park units.\
\
-- Park units over 100,000 acres appear as areas, park units under 100,000 acres as points, and linear parks, including rivers, trails, and seashores, as lines. There are a few exceptions to this rule.\
\
-- Park shapes were generalized with the Visvalingam-Whyatt algorithm using the on-line tools at Mapshaper.org\
\
-- The park units are customized to fit 1:10,000,000-scale Natural Earth base data available at www.naturalearthdata.com\
\
-- Many parks are comprised of scattered, non-contiguous land parcels. Not all of these are shown, especially in urban areas and the northeastern US. Dots generally indicate the center of the largest parcel or the parcel where the visitor center is located.\
\
-- Although National Preserves adjacent to National Parks are generally counted as separate units, they are typically administered jointly with their respective parks. This data reflects this administrative reality. For example, Denali National Park and Preserve appears as a single merged unit. \
\
-- Park boundaries extending over water areas are not shown.\
\
-- Park abbreviations follow those used in the "National Park System Map and Guide."\
\
DATA SOURCES\
\
-- NPS Data Store (Current Administrative Boundaries of National Park System Units November 24, 2009)\
\
www.nps.gov/gis/data_info\
\
\
-- National Park System Map and Guide, January 2010\
\
www.nps.gov/hfc/carto/nps-map-zoomify/nps-wall-map.html\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}